Game Music OverviewGame music files contain music data and optional text information about the game and music tracks. The music data is stored in two basic formats: a ROM format with the original music player program, and a simpler logged format containing the commands sent to the sound chip.The ROM format contains the actual machine code and related data used to play the music in the original game, manually extracted from the game's ROM and patched to work in isolation. To play this format, the game console's sound chip, CPU, memory mapper, and miscellaneous hardware must be emulated. There is no inherent track length (most loop forever), so it's useful for the file format to include a default length to play a track. For tracks that eventually end, a player can detect this by the presence of extended silence during playback, but can't easily determine the track length in advance. Because each game usually uses the same player program for all its tracks, most ROM format music files contain a game's entire soundtrack.The logged format contains a simple log of all the commands sent to the sound chip, along with the the time each command was sent, and optional loop points. The logs are created by running the game in an emulator, getting to a point where the song begins, then intercepting the commands sent to the sound chip. The length of a logged track is simply the time where the log ends. Logged files always have only a single track from a game.ROM format files are usually smaller because the playback code is from the original game, where space is limited. Logged files can be large due to having lots of redundant information, but have the advantage of being much simpler to play back. Compressing game music files reduces this size difference because logged files compress more.Some ROM format files are created directly by musicians rather than extracted from games. These are made using a music sequencing tool that generates song data and adds a player program to it, resulting in a playable game music file. These usually have only one track per file.What follows is a description of each supported game system format and its characteristics. Some offer unique information fields, like who "ripped" the music from the game, what emulator was used, etc., but these aren't covered here or used by Game Music Box.Super NintendoSPC: emulated; supports game, author, copyright, track name, and track time information.Playback involves emulating the SPC-700 digital signal processor, CPU, and timers.Nintendo Entertainment SystemNSFE: emulated; supports game, author, copyright, track names, and track time information.NSF: emulated; supports game, author, and copyright information (no track names or times).Playback involves emulating the NES sound chip, CPU, and memory mapper. These formats support the expansion sound chips contained in some game cartridges. Game Music Box supports Namco 106 and Konami VRC6 expansion sound.Nintendo Game BoyGBS: emulated; supports game, author and copyright information (no track names or times).Playback involves emulating the Game Boy sound chip, CPU, memory mapper, and timers.Sega Master SystemVGM: logged; supports game, author, copyright, track name, and track time information.Playback involves emulating the SN76489 sound chip. Game Music Box does not support the FM chip used in the Japanese Master System.Sega GenesisVGM, GYM: logged; supports game, author, copyright, track name, and track time information.Playback involves emulating the YM2612 FM sound chip, the SN76489 sound chip, and a PCM sound generator. The GYM format has poor time resolution so PCM sample timing has to be mostly guessed by the player. Game Music Box is enhanced to reconstruct some lost data for PCM samples, but isn't always able to do this. Some GYM files use internal compression schemes that aren't well-documented. Game Music Box currently doesn't support any kind of internally "packed" GYM file, but does support those compressed normally with gzip.